---
id: 1
title: Skyfall
date: 2013-01-09T04:06:19+00:00
author: him.happyhippos
layout: post
categories:
  - Blog
---
It's been awhile since I've posted; a long while. In fact, this whole site has been down, and I haven't bothered to put it back up again; until now.  It was a pretty interesting coincidence that my first post on this resurrected site is about the date I just had with my wife, watching a movie that contrasts the weathered wisdom of the past with the impetuous immediacy of youth.

There was a strange confluence of events where this contrast kept popping up.  As Emily was digging through my old belongings, she came across an old movie voucher that I had received from when I lined up to watch Star Wars: Episode I. Incredibly, when I took this thirteen-year-old tattered piece of paper to the counter, the manager said that they'd accept it.  Rather than issuing a new voucher, he suggested that I keep it since I wasn't using it that night, since a new voucher would have an expiry of three months.  Hearing that the old and weathered was actually more effective that the new reminded me of the scene where Kincade tosses his knife on the table for James to use.

It's strange to read through my previous posts and note the strange gap where I stopped writing.  As I reflected on the collections of ideas that I had previously written, I contemplated why I stopped putting pen to paper. I think that I began to try to absorb all the information that I could, constantly reading news sites and thirsting for updates and newness.  Sadly, most of this information was a transient thing, and by continually moving from tidbit to tidbit, I never gave myself the chance to reflect and digest, which is where learning really takes place. I think in this coming year, I'm going to try to spend more time reflecting, and try to get a better understanding of what I'm supposed to do. I don't want to forget my past, constantly moving on to newer things, but rather to learn from it, and take those lessons to heart.